{% include navigation.html %}

# Data Types
IESI allows four different types:
 - Text
 - List
 - Dataset
 - Template

All input provided to actions or output generated by actions will be one of these types. Data Types are formatted as follows: `{{^<data_type_keyword>(<arguments>)}}`

## Text
The 'Text' data type is used for all textual representation of information.

### Notation
To mark information as text there are two options:
 - `{{^text(<information>)}}`: use the 'text' keyword to mark the information as text. As argument, the information is provided. E.g. the action `fwk.outputMessage({{^text(Hello World)}})` will output the text: Hello World.
 - `<information>`: If no keyword is provided, IESI defaults to text. E.g. the action `fwk.outputMessage(Hello World)` will output the text: Hello World.

## List
Whenever information is logically structured as a collection, IESI uses the 'List' data type.

### Notation
A list is marked as follows; `{{^list([element...])}}`. Every element of the list can be of the following data types: text, list, dataset or template. E.g. the action `eval.listContains(value1, {{^list(value1, value2, value3)}})` will verify if the value 'value1' is present in the collection containing 'value1', 'value2' and 'value3'.

## Dataset
A dataset is a collection of data, more precisely a collection of key-value pairs. How to define a dataset is explained in [How to use datasets](/{{site.repository}}/pages/design/datasets.html).

### Notation
To mark information as a dataset we use the following notation: `{{^dataset(<name>, <labels>}}`. 'name' is the functional name of the dataset. 'labels' is the list of labels that uniquely defines the dataset implemenation. E.g. the action `data.outputDataset({{^dataset(dataset_1, {{^list(label_1, label_2)}})}})` will output the dataset with name 'dataset_1' and labels 'label_1' and 'label_2'.   